Added blogpost for 1.10.0 alpha2 (#367)
opentofu/opentofu.org: blog/2025-04-25-help-us-test-opentofu-1-10-0-alpha2.md

```bash
# Target specific resources listed in targets.txt
tofu plan -target-file=targets.txt

# Exclude specific resources listed in excludes.txt
tofu apply -exclude-file=excludes.txt
```

No more copy-pasting long resource addresses – just reference your carefully maintained resource lists.

### Flexible State Encryption with External Key Providers

Security-conscious teams will appreciate the new external key providers for state encryption, bringing unprecedented flexibility to your secret management approach:

```hcl
terraform {
  encryption {
    key_provider "external" "password_manager" {
      command = ["./state_encryption_key.sh", "some_parameter"]
    }
  }
}
```

The PBKDF2 key provider now supports chaining, allowing you to compose multiple key providers:

```hcl
terraform {
  encryption {
    key_provider "external" "password_manager" {
      command = ["./get_password.sh", "some_parameter"]
    }
    key_provider "pbkdf2" "passphrase" {
      chain = key_provider.external.password_manager
    }
  }
}
```

### And That's Not All

Alpha 2 packs numerous other quality-of-life improvements:

> - The `element` function now accepts negative indices, with `-1` cleverly selecting the final element

Reviewer: ```suggestion
- The `element` function now accepts negative indices, with `-1` selecting the last element
```

---
title: Help us test OpenTofu 1.10.0-alpha2
slug: help-us-test-opentofu-1-10-0-alpha2
image: /img/blog/help-us-test-opentofu-1-10-0-alpha2.png
---

> Hello, OpenTofu community! We're thrilled to announce the second alpha release of OpenTofu 1.10.0 – a version that's shaping up to be one of our most feature-rich releases yet. Building on the foundation laid in alpha1, this release delivers several innovative enhancements and critical fixes that push OpenTofu forward in significant ways.

Reviewer 2: this release -> this alpha

Reviewer 2: This kinda reads AI blogspammy

No more copy-pasting long resource addresses – just reference your carefully maintained resource lists.

### Deprecation for module variables and outputs

It is now possible to communicate variables and outputs deprecation via `deprecated` attribute! Module
authors are able to mark variable or output as deprecated and provide a suggestion on how to migrate 
away. Module callers will receive a warning, if their configuration is affected. Here is an example of 
configuration:

```hcl
variable "examle" {
  type       = string
  deprecated = "'examle' variable must no longer be used due to a typo, use 'example' instead"
}

output "examle" {
  value      = "someval"
  deprecated = "'examle' output must no longer be used due to a typo, use 'example' instead"
}
```

> 

Reviewer 3: Could we add links to the actual documentation too?
